# Emergency Preparedness Starter Guide
This document contains information, guides, and links to documents and videos surrounding emergency preparedness. Specific information was added that is particularly useful to residents of Payson, Utah. The organizational structures, existing plans, and future goals are based on, and directed towards, the individuals and families residing in the boundaries outlined in the map below. The boundaries coincide with the boundaries of a church congregation (the Mountain View 9th Ward), though no membership or activity is assumed or expected. The outlined documents and videos are meant to provide information valuable to all individuals, and define a clear structure that can help in the organization of relief efforts in the case of an emergency. The specific implementation can be adapted to other locations.

[Neighborhood map](./neighborhood_map.png)

## Explanation of Content
The theory behind this preparation material is that, in an emergency, we need the necessary equipment and skills and a way to organize and communicate. The '[kits.md](./kits.md)' page goes over some gear you may want when building a 72 hour kit. The '[communication.md](./communication.md)' page goes over communication methods that will assist in organizing during any disaster. The '[reporting_structure.md](/reporting_structure.md)' page gives a brief explanation to how we will try to structure our major communications and shows a map that details the boundaries of the different groups. The below section explains a little more on the topic.

## Reporting structure
In addition to having the equipment and skills necessary, an organizational structure to direct help towards those in need is very important. There are many of these structures already in use within the congregation's normal activities. This is in no way meant to replace any of that. An additional structure of communication is suggested as a way to supplement this, in a way that is particularly suited to emergencies.

Many traditional communications heavily rely on the internet or cellular services. The proximity of the groups in the emergency reporting structure allows for communication to reach every household relatively simply, even if in-person communication is the main method available. Additionally, the location-based groups mean that no one can be left out due to a lack of  prior involvement. If you are within the boundaries at all, you are, necessarily, established into a group with people that can help.
